Out of the various lessons that
can be taken out of Greek philosophy,
perhaps the most important one goes
something as such: "man is a political
animal". What exactly does this statement
mean? Most human beings on this planet
are not politicians. In many regions of
the world, there is a direct and single
correlation between being a politician
and being of royalty. This holds true
even in societies generally regarded
as "democratic". So the occupation of
politics, from this fact alone, seems
extremely exclusive even if a political
system is able to serve the interests of
many, i.e. democratic. The most rational
interpretation of "man is a political
animal" is that each human being,
regardless of the condition that they
are a politician, operates by social
concepts for their own desired results
of unity and disunity. The cumulative
effect of each human being operating by
social concepts amongst each other
is trade-off and power dynamics through
their interactions. And these trade-off
and power dynamics, if designed and
fully acted through according to the
political will of stability and
prosperity, result in drastically better
conditions amongst the human beings
(political animals) than if the human
beings were to go to each their own
way and have negligent interaction
with each other.

Why need politics? It is because
someone always knows better, or
someone is better. The order of
politics presupposes that there are
those that just so happen to be
more capable or fit than others,
and the social construct needs to
be structured according to a vision
from those most informed, capable,
and fair. This is true in both
egalitarian and elitist political
systems, that which both require
administrative centers. Those that
push for egalitarian systems tend
to de-emphasize the existence of these
administrative centers, and those that
are elitist do the exact opposite and
usually state their affiliation or
role with the administrative center
as part of their intrinsic and
much-deserved identity on top of
others.

The overarching concept of politics
is usually discussed as a sort of game,
where there are winners and losers,
the decorum of appearances and the
backroom, and the expected versus
the actual results achieved. But
because a person's livelihood is at
stake, the recreational aspect of
the term "game" makes the term
improper from types of perspectives
such as emotionalist and
existentialist.

Who is to really say that someone
is more fit or capable than someone
else? This question really has no
definitive answer that is outside
of the judgments of human beings.
There are, of course, formulae that
can be used. Collect the pertinent
variables of any two or more, and
input each of those sequences of
variables into the formulae. Then
the outputs should reveal some
inkling at least on who is more
fit or capable. But there is a very
big detail that has been forgotten
through this train of thought; is
being fit or being capable more
important? The answer is quite
subjective, and even if someone
were to prefer one over the other,
then there is still the question of
the climate and persons being compared
since exceptions do occur. The matter
of fitness and capability can be
inserted into formulae to give at
least an idea of who is really
better, but there is still no
guarantee that the idea is valid
or produces any guarantees if stood by.
But even the construction of the
formulae is subjective. Do the
formulae even need mathematical
reasoning on paper to be called
formulae, or can they simply come
from the hearts and minds of those
that are recognized as participants
in the decision process? And
lastly, there are two mentalities
to go about judging whether one
is more fit or capable over
another. One mentality is the
predictive and betting type, who
modify their own plans and strategies
to suit who they think will win.
Those with this mentality usually
take a neutral stance towards those
that are in comparison but a proactive
stance that uses probabilities for
their own interests. And the other
mentality is the believer or the
biased mentality, in which there
is a preference to call someone more
fit or capable over another. Concepts
such as the "natural leader" are
extremely important in political
contests. Character backgrounds become
that much more scrutinized and
cross-examined.

Another broad concept in the
political nature of human beings is
the trade-off, the antithesis to
the absolution that some seek in
the context of politics. The
networking so present in every
political system sprung up because
of the trade-off. This entails the
differentiation of roles, values,
and material goods (part of
geopolitics) because of asymmetry.
Somehow, through the various
trade-off dynamics that manifest
themselves in ways such as the
broad examples of supervisor-worker,
server-client, producer-consumer,
teacher-student, and master-slave,
there are codependencies that are
forged between political animals in
the same political system alongside
hierarchies that may or may not be
fluid in their structuring based on
the specific contexts that those
hierarchies are invoked in.

Politics, based on the exemplification
of trade-offs that were recently
mentioned, then can be understood
as ubiquitious. It is how human
beings see each other past the
initial identifiers of identity and
ego. Politics, as formally practiced,
requires a reasonable amount of
debate and even questioning, even
in the more absolutist variants.
This fact is the reason why there
is the saying "leave politics out
of it". The innate biology present
in human beings serve as a great
motivator for amplifying competition.
To clarify, there is no lessening
of competition if politics is to
be considered a game where there
are roles to be won. The competition
can take different forms that may
deceive some human beings into
believing that there is no
competition. This amplifying of
competition can be done through
increasing the threshold for
success/recognition or placing
restrictions on the practices and
strengths of certain contenders
in politics. Typical idioms such
as "dog eat dog world" support
this approach to thinking about
politics if it were a game. When
a person takes things for granted,
and has few if any questions to
ask about the trade-off, the role,
or the judgments, and additionally
does not amplify the harshness in
the trade-off, the strength of
their role, or their own judgments,
then they could be considered,
from an empirical standpoint,
non-political. But it is not always
politics because pain and suffering
are inevitable, the pure existentialist
says. And the pure emotionalist with
an aching soul would say that they
just want to be happy. They do not
want politics because politics is
real enough to make them feel emotions.